1. Null Hypothesis and Alternative Hypothesis
- NH is to assume the variation of the sampling data is pure chance, aka, the sample data
belong to the population
- NA is the opposite, aka, the sample data is from a different population
- NH and NA are mutually exclusive

2. Hypothesis testing results:
- you reject the null hypothesis
- you fail to reject the null hypothesis (instead of you reject the null hypothesis)
(reason being Acceptance implies that the null hypothesis is true. Failure to reject
implies that the data are not sufficiently persuasive for us to prefer the alternative
hypothesis over the null hypothesis)

3. Hypothesis Testing Steps.

- State the hypotheses. This involves stating the null and alternative hypotheses.
The hypotheses are stated in such a way that they are mutually exclusive. That is,
if one is true, the other must be false.

- Formulate an analysis plan. The analysis plan describes how to use sample data
to evaluate the null hypothesis. The evaluation often focuses around a single test statistic.

- Analyze sample data. Find the value of the test statistic (mean score, proportion,
t statistic, z-score, etc.) described in the analysis plan.

- Interpret results. Apply the decision rule described in the analysis plan. If the value
of the test statistic is unlikely, based on the null hypothesis, reject the null hypothesis

4. Two types of errors
- Type I error: when the researcher rejects a null hypothesis when it is true. The probability
of committing a Type I error is called the "significance level". This probability is also called "alpha",
and is often denoted by α.

- Type II error: when the researcher fails to reject a null hypothesis
that is false. The probability of committing a Type II error is called "Beta", and is often denoted
by β. The probability of not committing a Type II error is called the "Power of the test".

6. Decision Rules:
- P-value:
The strength of evidence in support of a null hypothesis is measured by the P-value.
Suppose the test statistic is equal to S. The P-value is the probability of observing a test statistic
as extreme as S, assuming the null hypothesis is true. If the P-value is less than the significance level,
we reject the null hypothesis.

- Region of acceptance:
The region of acceptance is a range of values. If the test statistic falls
within the region of acceptance, the null hypothesis is not rejected. The region of acceptance is
defined so that the chance of making a Type I error is equal to the significance level.

7. t-distribution:
When the standard deviation of the sample is substituted for the standard deviation of the population,
the statistic does not have a normal distribution; it has what is called the t‐distribution(see Table 3
in "Statistics Tables"). Because there is a different t‐distribution for each sample size, it is not
practical to list a separate area‐of ‐the‐curve table for each one. Instead, critical t‐values for
common alpha levels (0.10, 0.05, 0.01, and so forth) are usually given in a single table for a range of
sample sizes. For very large samples, the t‐distribution approximates the standard normal ( z)
distribution. In practice, it is best to use t‐distributions any time the population standard deviation
is not known.

8. Degree of Freedom:
Values in the t‐table are not actually listed by sample size but by degrees of freedom (df). The number
of degrees of freedom for a problem involving the t‐distribution for sample size n is simply n – 1 for
a one‐sample mean problem.

9. one-tail or two-tail:
- one tail example:
The professor wants the class to be able to score above 70 on the test.
null hypothesis: H 0: μ = 70
alternative hypothesis: H a : μ > 70

A 90 percent confidence level is equivalent to an alpha level of 0.10. Because extreme values in one
rather than two directions will lead to rejection of the null hypothesis, this is a one‐tailed test,
and you do not divide the alpha level by 2. The number of degrees of freedom for the problem is 6 – 1 = 5.
The value in the t‐table for t .10,5 is 1.476.
- two tail example:
A Little League baseball coach wants to know if his team is representative of other teams in scoring runs.
null hypothesis: H 0: μ = 5.7
alternative hypothesis: H a : μ ≠ 5.7

The overall alpha level is 0.05, but because this is a two‐tailed test, the alpha level must be divided by two,
which yields 0.025. The tabled value for t .025,4 is 2.776.

10. The t-statistic:
The t-statistic(t score) is a ratio between the difference between two groups and the difference within the groups.

11. Two-sample t test:
- Purpose: To test if the means of two population are equal
- Paired two-sample t test: there is a one-to-one correspondence between the values in the two samples
- Unpaired two-sample t test: the size of two samples may or may not be equal
